The Root 303 corridor is a heavily traveled arterial that passes through the heart of the
communities of Tapan, Orangeburg, and Blauville.
In order to enhance traffic safety and improve the quality of life for residents and businesses
along the roadway.
The town of Orangetown, the Rockland County Planning Department, the New York Metropolitan
Transportation Council, and the New York State DOT, have jointly undertaken the Root 303
Sustainable Development Study.
Assisted by Wilbur Smith Associates, the study consulted.
These agencies conducted a series of open public forum meetings called SHARETS, where
community members were invited to discuss their concerns, suggestions, and visions for
the Root 303 corridor.
We're concerned about the future of the community, the land uses in the corridor, and how
this corridor fits into the town, into the county, and into the region.
So yes, it's transportation, but it's so much more than that.
We have a true opportunity to do something here that's exemplary, that we can do something
about transportation, and really make an example of how we can be forward thinking.
It would be a wonderful thing.
A SHARETS is a name that we've given to an approach, which really tries to lay out in
a series of meetings and number of issues, and let people work constructively through
those issues.
Three SHARETS have been scheduled during the study period.
At the first SHARET, eight topics were brought up for discussion, dealing with issues pertaining
to the Root 303 corridor and surrounding areas.
This involved in the study explained the issues associated with each topic and facilitated
discussions among the participants.
We have to be able to maintain access in the areas so that the businesses can survive.
They're crazy.
They just know close to the red light, noticing.
Now I want a left hand turn, all 303, and a very strange.
Let's try to make 303 a nice road.
It is a nice road.
Let's make it safe.
Let's clean it up.
If this was eliminated here, and then from here and here, there was like a left only.
I'm really interested to know kind of where you live in the corridor.
We're also you guys think that we could put some landscaping in.
Following the first SHARET, a study team discussed the feedback called from the breakout groups
and created three clear-cut scenarios or alternatives on how the 303 corridor could be redeveloped,
concentrating on town centers, open space, and business emphasis.
It's difficult for a community to come together and describe a future vision in a consensual
way, and these workshops are intended to try to bring you through that out, so we can
begin to start modeling alternatives.
The first topic discussed was town centers.
I'm looking at this corridor now as the next 100 years.
I'm not looking anymore at today.
I'm looking to see what I would like to live in 100 years from now, and I want a village.
I would vision maybe some small village centers where they're easily accessible by foot, where
people can travel down 303 at a comfortable pace, pull into an area, park, and spend some
time in an area without having to worry about getting in their car and going to the next
big parking lot.
The second scenario, open space.
I think we should remember open space preservation.
I think that maybe we could be looking to our local officials to be putting in incentives
for donating land for the purpose of open space.
The third and final scenario, business emphasis.
I think the purpose of this meeting is to make the kind of transportation corridor and
kind of zoning, the kind of planning that will attract the kinds of business that is
essential for maintaining a good form of life in this town.
These big box establishments are literally sucking the life out of a local economy.
And if the businesses could be located close enough to these little centers, maybe somebody
would take a ten minute walk on their lunch break.
There has to be some limitation put on what can be built where and how much of it can
be built and it's basically a negotiation.
Following the second charret, the study team analyzed the feedback obtained during the
three sessions.
Here at Eerie Street, right now they've shown us with these bump hounds and everybody
liked that when we went to the meeting.
What they'd also like to do is to do that textured pavement so we need to show that on this
photo.
Ultimately, the final plan submitted at the third charret would incorporate aspects of each
of the three land-use scenarios.
Fundamentally, what we want to try to do is to say, look at this is how we're interpreting
all this input.
These are the scenarios.
This is what we're going to take to detail testing.
Do you have any final take on it?
If we've done our job correctly, what we'll end up with is a set of an approach that gives
us a better solution that either of the solutions individually result that in essence kind
of optimizes the corridor will bring that result back to the community and say, hey,
this looks like the combination of what you've said, it looks like our result of an analysis.
What do you think?
And then we'll make some final adjustments and if the process comes out like I think it
will, I think we'll come up with a vision.
The goal is to put all of that together into a plan and then to allow the town board to
implement those suggestions in terms of zone changes and traffic safety improvements.
For further information, we invite you to contact the Route 303 Sustainable Development Study
team.